[AUDIO LOGO]
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Debra Martin with us,
an intuitive healer,
internationally certified
lab research medium,
and has developed a very
unique distant healing
technique that produced
some miraculous results.
Debra, welcome to Beyond Belief.
>>DEBRA MARTIN: Oh, thank
you for having me here.
I'm so excited.
>>NOORY: You look great.
>>MARTIN: Oh, thanks.
You do, too.
>>NOORY: What are you doing?
>>MARTIN: I'm just living
life and trying to bring joy
into my life as much as I can.
>>NOORY: How did you
become an intuitive healer?
>>MARTIN: OK.
So I had a near-death
experience on 1/21/12.
And when I crossed over, I
was given the gift of healing.
>>NOORY: Tell us about the
after-death, near-death
experience.
>>MARTIN: I was sick and dying.
I was being seen by Mayo
clinic and they could not
find anything that
was going on with me.
>>NOORY: They didn't know
why this was happening?
>>MARTIN: They had no clue.
>>NOORY: But you were dying.
>>MARTIN: Yeah, I was
down to 90 pounds.
I couldn't eat.
>>NOORY: Oh, my god.
>>MARTIN: If I did drink
any water or eat anything,
I was in extreme pain.
So--
>>NOORY: You were in
pain drinking water?
>>MARTIN: Just tiny sips.
It was like I was in labor.
And so when you
get to that point,
you are asking God to take you.
Like this isn't the quality
of life that I wanted.
>>NOORY: You wanted to
end-- without ending it,
you wanted it to end.
>>MARTIN: Yeah, and
that's hard to say
when you have four children.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>MARTIN: Right?
And it was like--
but you're not
thinking that way.
You're just like,
this isn't a quality--
and I don't want to be around
for them to see that either.
So I was praying, just take me.
And I can remember
the morning that I
saw physical spiritual
surgeons come into my room.
And being a medium
already, I wasn't afraid.
I was like, OK, what
are you here for?
>>NOORY: Then you were
ready, weren't you?
>>MARTIN: Yeah, but when I
saw the spiritual surgeons,
I'm like, what are
they going to do?
And they started
working on my gut.
And it was very, very painful.
And I remember
going, if I'm going
to continue letting
them working on me,
I'm going to need to take
like connect out of my body
because this is too painful.
So I remember
taking a deep breath
and when I took a deep breath,
I was now out of my body
but I was transcending
and I was going--
I came to a beautiful
space that was all white.
And--
>>NOORY: You left
that area totally?
>>MARTIN: Totally.
And so when I was
in this other space,
I kind of looked around
like, OK, I'm by myself.
It's all white.
And then I saw this vision
of what my God looked
like come forward for me.
And now, I saw him
holding my body.
So I knew my soul was watching
this whole production,
I want to say.
And he took my body and he
placed it on a beam of light.
And then he took me to
have a conversation.
>>NOORY: Did you look
unconscious looking
at your body?
>>MARTIN: Yeah, it
just looks still.
>>NOORY: Like it was dead?
>>MARTIN: Yeah, that I'm
just being placed there
and there was a
coffin next to it.
So I didn't know if I was going
to end up being in the coffin
or if we were going to
make a decision here.
>>NOORY: This is
what you asked for.
>>MARTIN: This is
what I asked for,
and so when I talked to God and
had a conversation, he said,
you're on borrowed time
but I can reverse this.
And you'll go back
with a new gift.
At that time I didn't
know what the gift was.
I just thought it meant voice of
being a medium because he said,
you'll be a voice.
What I learned now, I am
the voice of hearing spirit.
When I do healings,
I'm able to tell people
what's going on with them.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>MARTIN: So it-- when it
came back into the body,
something shifted.
And that--
>>NOORY: No more pain, nothing?
>>MARTIN: No more pain.
I mean, I had pain for a while,
I still had to walk through it
and that's what's interesting
with my healings, too.
It can happen instantly
and it can take time.
And so I stood in my faith
going, OK, I came back.
There's a reason I'm back.
I'm not going to be
sick for a long time.
And then my healing
abilities just boomed.
>>NOORY: Aren't you glad you
didn't jump off too soon?
>>MARTIN: I am glad I
didn't jump off too soon.
>>NOORY: What is an
international research lab
certified medium?
What exactly is that?
>>MARTIN: So
certified medium means
that I was tested with a
quadruple blood experiment
by Dr. Gary Schwartz
and Dr. Julie Beischel.
So if you want to learn
more about that experiment,
you can go on to the
Windbridge Institute
and they'll tell you the whole
protocol what I had to do.
>>NOORY: I love Gary.
He's a great guy.
>>MARTIN: Yes.
It was not an easy test.
>>NOORY: You've been
healing and working this now
for how many years?
>>MARTIN: So my mediumship,
I've done over 20 years.
And my healing abilities have
been on 1/21/12, so about 12,
a little over 12 years.
>>NOORY: And you're doing
long distance healing?
How does that work?
>>MARTIN: I am doing
long distance healing.
I find that doing
a remote healing
is more profound than
doing a in-person session.
The healing is like energy.
Energy travels, and so instantly
when I connect with my client,
they're already feeling no
matter where they're at,
they're feeling what's
happening in my room.
>>NOORY: They feel it instantly?
>>MARTIN: Yes.
Well, some people might not--
I should say some people
won't feel things,
some people will feel if the
spiritual surgeons give them
medicine, they might
sleep the whole time,
and go I just couldn't move.
Some people will,
like this one woman,
I saw her daughter who was
deceased come into the room
and I could see her vividly.
And then she saw her on her end.
>>NOORY: She saw her?
>>MARTIN: And then--
>>NOORY: She saw
her dead daughter?
>>MARTIN: Yes, and she heard
words from her and she helped--
and she felt her hold her hand.
And then sometimes I
see spiritual surgeons
like I see them all the time.
And they're hilarious because
they might drop something
in my room like a tool
that they're using on me
and you'll hear it.
And I used to get mad like--
and I could see them in
my mind, and I'm like,
OK, you guys are disrupting me.
And they'll go,
sorry, like that.
And I'll go, OK, this is funny.
>>NOORY: Killing
your concentration.
>>MARTIN: Right, was like, stop.
But what's so fascinating with
that is now when it happens,
I know it's happening
for a reason
because everything is recorded.
So when I say, oh they
dropped something,
the person who's
having the healing
can hear it and go I heard it.
>>NOORY: It's like
the Truman Show.
>>MARTIN: [LAUGHS] Yeah.
>>NOORY: You have a
technique called God is love.
What is that?
>>MARTIN: So I believe
that God is love.
And so I call my healing
God is love healings
because I believe love heals.
And so in my healings,
the process of my healing
is I will go into
a healing session
and I will begin with prayer.
After my prayer,
then I will start
connecting and I'm on a
healing table and I vision
a beam of light coming down
going into my solar plexus--
>>NOORY: Into yours?
>>MARTIN: Yes.
So every client has to
send me their picture.
It's a full body picture.
I'm going to become their proxy.
And I place that right
here on my abdomen.
And the beam of light connects
the three of us as one.
So the energy and the frequency
is touching all three of us.
>>NOORY: And this is
long distance healing?
>>MARTIN: This is.
Mm-hm.
So I can see what's
going on in the body.
I can hear what's
Like, I can hear the words
that they need to hear.
I can see the
spiritual surgeons.
I can see if we go on
out of body experience.
I can see God come
into the room.
I can see loved ones.
So the mediumship
really plays a big role
because I'm able to see, hear,
and voice everything that's
going on.
And then I also feel--
my body will feel.
And people get so
upset, like, oh, I'm
so sorry that you had
to take out my pain.
But it's not something to
be sorry about because it
becomes a blessing.
I can feel it, so
I don't deny it.
That, oh, my gosh, they're
working in the knee,
I can feel the knee pain.
Or, oh, you're
wearing a kidney bag.
I can see it and feel it.
>>NOORY: You get the
pain from the individual?
>>MARTIN: Yes.
So that we can go
and release it.
>>NOORY: Is it
excruciating sometimes?
>>MARTIN: Sometimes.
>>NOORY: What happens
if you take in the pain,
and you can't get rid of it?
>>MARTIN: Never had that.
So when you go in
with the intention of,
thank you for allowing
me to feel it,
but when the session is over,
it's no longer a part of me.
It's gone.
That's your truth.
>>NOORY: Are you
an intuitive healer
more than you're a medium?
>>MARTIN: I would say
I'm an intuitive healer,
but I do bring
the mediumship in.
Because I just did a session
for a family of five.
And they want to connect
with their deceased father.
And he had committed suicide.
>>NOORY: Oh, gosh.
>>MARTIN: And so the kids
were all in their teen ages.
And the mother was
like, they need healing,
and now they're grown up.
The father came through and
talked to each individual one
by one.
>>NOORY: Through you?
>>MARTIN: Yes.
And so that's where the
mediumship was there.
And gave them direct
messages of what they're
doing in life, how he feels.
And then he talked to
the wife, and what's--
I was just
dumbfounded with this.
She said the words he spoke
to her that day were verbatim
the words that he wrote
on his suicide letter.
>>NOORY: Oh.
>>MARTIN: Right?
>>NOORY: It's incredible.
Was there a lot of
forgiveness there
on the behalf of the kids?
>>MARTIN: Yeah, they
were able to understand.
>>NOORY: A lot of
pain involved too.
>>MARTIN: So that wasn't
really a physical healing.
That was an emotional healing.
>>NOORY: Which is
just as important.
>>MARTIN: It is.
I mean, one of the boys
was kind of suicidal.
And within a couple
of weeks, he ended up
turning his whole life
around, just from the words
that his father gave.
>>NOORY: Tell us about some
of your most recent miraculous
healing in a case.
>>MARTIN: I'm excited
to share this.
My most recent
miraculous healing
was for a little boy, aged six.
His name is Theo.
He's from London.
And he was cured of
terminal leukemia.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>MARTIN: OK.
So--
>>NOORY: You're
looking emotional.
>>MARTIN: I do get emotional.
I'll get emotional
through the whole thing.
>>NOORY: Go ahead, cry.
>>MARTIN: [LAUGHS] So you're
going to be just so surprised
with this.
On the day that Theo's
parents, Michael and Katie,
received the news of
Theo's bone marrow biopsy,
he only had two weeks to live.
>>NOORY: Oh, God.
>>MARTIN: It was the very
same day that your episode
with me aired on Gaia
with Mary and Willa.
And the mother said,
I have a knowingness
that this needs to be done.
And because of your show,
that's why they want
me to speak this story today.
You saved their son.
>>NOORY: So did you.
>>MARTIN: It takes a team.
>>NOORY: You got me emotional.
>>MARTIN: I'm sorry.
>>NOORY: We sometimes
don't understand
the power of what we do.
What did the doctors say?
>>MARTIN: So the
doctors sent Theo home,
and told him that he
had two weeks to die.
That's the longest
they gave him.
>>NOORY: That's
when you kicked in.
>>MARTIN: And so that's
when they reached out to me
to have a healing session.
And on the day that we
had the healing session,
the father realized that
it was one year to the date
that he was diagnosed.
So we felt, wow, this
is so divinely planned.
When I went into the healing
session, I took Theo's picture.
And I said, God, we're
healing leukemia here today.
>>NOORY: He's in London.
You're in Phoenix.
>>MARTIN: He's in London,
and I'm in Phoenix, correct.
So I take the picture,
and I'm talking to God.
And I say, God, we're
healing leukemia today.
And God says, don't
give power to the name.
When you give power to
the name of leukemia,
you're giving power
to the illness.
And at that moment,
I was like, OK.
So I removed my humanness aside.
And I allowed God to take
over, orchestrate the session.
>>NOORY: Through you?
>>MARTIN: Mm-hm.
So I laid down on
the healing table.
Immediately, I saw
spiritual surgeons.
I saw a needle go into
my neck, and a needle
go into underneath my right rib.
I saw tubes coming
out of both areas.
They were going to
extract the cancer.
So what I learned later,
after the session,
is these two areas
were the exact areas
that Theo had his tubes.
>>NOORY: Wow.
Without knowing that?
>>MARTIN: Right.
So what happens next
is, God takes Theo
into another dimension.
And he says, Theo,
I'm so proud of you.
You are so courageous.
You're one strong boy.
But I don't want you to feel
anything during this session.
So I'm going to have you--
and all of a sudden,
this beautiful golden dog
comes and sits next to Theo.
And he's like, I'm going to
let you go play in the field,
in the pasture with this dog.
>>NOORY: Was this a real
dog or a mystical dog?
>>MARTIN: A real dog.
Well, in this dimension.
>>NOORY: In this dimension.
>>MARTIN: So they
go off and play.
So I come back into my body.
And I start feeling
kind of itchy.
And God says, if
he develops a rash,
just know that that's everything
still coming out of the body.
Two weeks later, he developed a
rash, and his parents knew why.
So I'm in this session right
now, and I'm laying straight.
Theo's picture is here.
And my body starts thrashing.
>>NOORY: Quivering.
>>MARTIN: No.
Like, really violently,
like, shaking.
It goes on for a
long, long time.
When I complete--
>>NOORY: Are you alert?
>>MARTIN: I'm alert.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MARTIN: But I have no control.
It's taking over me.
At that moment, I
said to myself, OK,
just let it go, let it happen.
And then when it came to
a stop, I was overwhelmed.
I was crying.
And it felt like my body
just went through a marathon.
I was breathing heavy.
I had to get back to my center.
Once I was back to
my center, I then
went back into the
dimension where Theo was.
And I was watching, and
God called Theo over.
So Theo walks up to God.
And the dog follows,
and sits next to Theo.
So, all of a sudden, Theo goes--
shakes his hand.
>>NOORY: A paw?
>>MARTIN: And I start--
no, he's doing this to God.
>>NOORY: Oh, he's
shaking God's hand?
I thought he was
shaking the dog's hand.
>>MARTIN: No, the
dog's sitting here.
And he goes up to God, and
starts shaking his hand.
And I start laughing.
I just think that's
the cutest thing.
And God looks at me, and he
says, no, this is an agreement
that Theo and I are making.
>>NOORY: They're cutting a deal.
>>MARTIN: They're cutting the
deal, like two men shaking
hands, making an agreement.
And so they shared words.
And I could not
hear those words.
Those words were
between Theo and God.
>>NOORY: Theo's
mother, Katie, explains
the results of what you did.
>> The hour that he
was having his healing,
we experienced magic and things
that we can't humanly explain.
And then immediately
following the healing,
we saw huge improvements.
And these include
his blood counts
that had been perpetually low
for months immediately doubled.
His appetite went through the
roof, and we couldn't fill him.
His energy went through
the roof to the point
that the hospital
couldn't understand
how he was bouncing around.
His vitality increased.
We had our son back.
All of a sudden from a
very, very poorly child,
we had Theo back.
The next bone marrow
biopsy after the healing,
which was three weeks, showed
that the leukemia, the disease
had stood still.
It hadn't moved.
And the doctors couldn't
comprehend this.
Because this was such
an aggressive disease
that in a two-week period on
the strongest chemotherapy
you could give a
person, it still
found a way to completely
rage through that.
They couldn't control it
with that chemotherapy.
Now in a two-month
period, with absolutely
no medical intervention,
it had stood still, which
is a medical impossibility.
And they had no
explanation for that.
>>NOORY: The parents
are obviously in shock
that this worked the way it did.
>>MARTIN: They
are very grateful.
Very, very grateful.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
How about the doctors?
What did they say?
>>MARTIN: The doctors--
>>NOORY: The skeptical doctors.
>>MARTIN: Perplexed.
But they were calling
it a bit of a miracle.
They won't say--
>>NOORY: They
wouldn't go the full--
>>MARTIN: Yeah, a
bit of a miracle.
But we'll take it.
I will say there was a point
where we weren't happy.
We were thinking the biopsy
was going to come back
where he would show anything.
So when it said stable, here
we were being ungrateful.
We were just like, what?
And so we had to
have our moment.
We had to feel that
emotion, like we--
>>NOORY: You wanted
it totally gone.
>>MARTIN: We want it gone.
So now what?
What's the next step?
What do we do next?
And things leading
up to that, God
said, I want you to go
and ask all the why nots.
Why not do these next steps
that we're going to show you?
Interesting timing how
everything is always divinely
planned.
You saw them wearing the
Army for Love shirts.
That's a group that I do.
And it's free.
It's a free once a month Zoom.
And we talk about things that
are going on in our life.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MARTIN: At the
end of the session,
there is a mini healing.
>>NOORY: For everybody
there participating.
What did Katie tell
you about dying before?
>>MARTIN: That's what I'm
going to share with you.
So it happened in the
mini healing session.
>>NOORY: You're not going to
make me cry again, are you?
>>MARTIN: Probably.
In the mini healing
session, God took all of us
to the edge of a mountain.
And he told us, I want you
to step off the mountain.
I know it's scary.
I know it takes
a lot of courage.
And I know it's unknown.
Will you fall?
Will you die?
What will happen when you
step off that mountain?
So we all took
the leap of faith.
We took our step.
And we were standing in
the middle of the air.
Just standing.
And he says, see?
I got you.
You're not going to fall.
So Katie speaks.
And she's crying.
And she says, I haven't
told anyone this.
I haven't told anybody
this, but my husband.
So God knew that
if he takes my son,
I told Michael, her
husband, that I'm
going to climb up
that mountain and I'm
going to jump off, because
I'm not going to let my son be
on the other side without me.
>>NOORY: Wow.
She would have
committed suicide.
>>MARTIN: And God knew it and
said, take the leap of faith.
I'm not going to let you fall.
>>NOORY: How close was Michael
involved in all of this?
>>MARTIN: He was involved
every step of the way.
What's so beautiful
is that they're really
just a strong team.
When you're going through
the trenches of this
and not knowing what the next
step is, Michael was her rock.
She was his rock.
And I just come in to try
to assess and bring joy
to the situation for every step.
So it was interesting
what happened next, is
the doctors made a call.
The doctors called us
and said to us, well,
Theo's now at this
level where he
wasn't before where
he qualifies to go
to Barcelona for a treatment.
He'd be the first
person in the world
to receive this treatment.
Would you like to proceed?
So you take a deep breath
going, well, do we?
Do we continue?
What would that look like?
All the unknowns.
And so we started
asking all the why nots.
And we ended up
going to Barcelona.
>>NOORY: As an added benefit, I
assume, to the healing you did.
>>MARTIN: Yes.
So you look at how
God presents things,
and you never know
what it means.
But if you walk through
every single door,
it will reveal itself.
So we started asking
all the why nots.
Why wouldn't we do this?
And everything ended
up being that pointed
in the right direction
of, we need to do this.
As scary as it was, we all
held each other's hands,
and they drove to Barcelona.
>>NOORY: Did it work.
>>MARTIN: Well, they
didn't have the trial.
>>NOORY: They did not?
Why not?
>>MARTIN: So what
ended up happening was
the night before he was
supposed to have the treatment,
I was on the phone with them.
And they were nervous
for what they were
going to have the next day.
What's the outcome going to be?
No one knows, not
even the doctors.
This is the first
time in the world
that somebody's going
to receive this.
So I said, well, I'll stay up.
I'll stay up.
You guys get some sleep.
>>NOORY: You still
had his picture.
>>MARTIN: I still
Saying some prayers.
So at 2 o'clock in
the morning, my time,
I get a text that says
that they had an emergency
meeting with the doctor.
>>NOORY: Over Theo?
>>MARTIN: Over Theo.
So I was like, OK,
what could be going on?
Now the night before--
>>NOORY: And everybody thought
he was getting better, right?
>>MARTIN: Everybody thought
he was getting better.
But the night before,
Michael and I were talking.
And we both had this
download from spirit
that the doctors were
going to be perplexed.
And we had no idea
what that meant.
So now they're headed into
this meeting with the doctors.
And the doctor said,
we're so sorry.
Theo can no longer
have the treatment.
And they're like, why?
Well, the protein that he
needed to have in his body
in order to have
this treatment--
>>NOORY: Treatment.
>>MARTIN: --is no
longer visible.
It's gone.
And we have no explanation.
It's just gone.
And then they said all
the scans and everything
that they did there now showed
that his body was healthy.
And that there was nothing.
>>NOORY: This is great news.
>>MARTIN: Well that's
what we were thinking.
But the doctors,
I think, were sad
that they weren't
able to do the trial.
>>NOORY: Because they
weren't involved.
Katie the mother
details what went on
during that Barcelona trial.
>> When Theo was in Barcelona,
he had one week of screening
tests.
And this involved blood
tests which were--
they included all
manner of things.
So they took a lot
of blood to test
for lots of different things.
He had two ultrasounds,
one on his lymph nodes,
one on his heart to
test his heart function.
There was another day where
he had a bone marrow biopsy.
And then the final day
involved a full body PET scan.
And this was for one hour.
So he needed to be put under
general anesthetic for this.
And they injected him
with radioactive isotopes.
So it was really thorough
to check from head
to toe for anything lurking.
Any tumors, anything abnormal.
Because they needed to
test to see how healthy
his body was functioning.
So it was a really intense
and difficult week,
for which Debra was there
with us every step of the way.
>>NOORY: What were
the results, then?
He was cured.
>>MARTIN: Well, they wouldn't
say that he was cured.
They were all just perplexed.
So--
>>NOORY: They didn't
know what happened.
>>MARTIN: So she
calls me, right.
She doesn't know how to feel.
Because the doctors are
like, oh, we're so sorry.
>>NOORY: Instead of being
jumping for joy, right.
>>MARTIN: So she's like,
and so I hear these words.
And I immediately
start laughing.
And I'm like, oh, I
don't mean to be rude.
But that was just my reaction.
I was laughing, going, you guys,
you know what just happened?
We went to Barcelona
because Barcelona
did all the tests, all the
screening, all the blood tests,
all the CT scan everything
that Katie just said,
that they couldn't have
had done in London.
It was proof of God's miracle.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MARTIN: And it was like,
do you see how we had to go
through--
>>NOORY: And the doctors
still would not admit it.
>>MARTIN: No.
Well, no.
So that night, so it's
I go to bed, I wake up.
And I get a vision.
So I get this vision.
And I go, oh, Katie's not
going to like this vision.
So I call Katie.
Katie puts me on
the speakerphone.
Now it's the middle
of their day, right.
So they've had their day.
And I said, Katie, I
have to share something.
I'm apprehensive to
share this, but I
think you should get a puppy.
She goes, oh my god, Debra.
With everything I've been going
through, I don't need a puppy.
>>NOORY: Here's that
dog again, right?
>>MARTIN: So what
happens is Theo goes,
yay, Debra says
we're getting a dog.
And I said, what's going on?
He goes, Michael had the
same vision that morning
that we need to get a dog.
And guess what?
That night, they found the dog.
It's a golden dog.
They were able to bring the
dog home on Theo's birthday.
>>NOORY: How about
that for timing?
>>MARTIN: And so we feel
in our hearts, the dog that
was in heaven, Theo didn't
have to go to the dog.
The dog was born
and came to Theo.
>>NOORY: I love that story.
>>MARTIN: Isn't that beautiful?
>>NOORY: What is Theo's
life expectancy today?
>>MARTIN: Well, he was
given two weeks to live.
And now it's been seven months.
>>NOORY: And he's
in total remission?
>>MARTIN: Yeah, he's
healthy, he's whole.
He's living life.
And what I have to
say about that family
is they bring joy to their life.
So joy and love
raises the vibration.
They played a major role
in their son's healing.
They weren't down and depressed.
When they were, they
removed themselves.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MARTIN: They still felt
that they walked through it.
But then they said,
how's that serving me?
And then we danced and we
sang and we brought joy
to every single day.
And that's what they do.
And now they have to learn how
to live in this new reality.
>>NOORY: How are people
around Theo today?
>>MARTIN: It's
interesting, because Theo
has gone back to the ward.
Sometimes he gets
blood tests just
to see how his immune
system's doing.
Because if he goes
to school, he's
got to make sure
everything is full--
his immune system's high.
>>NOORY: Oh, absolutely.
>>MARTIN: And so he brings
joy and light to that ward.
And what's happening
is he's bringing hope.
Because the parents see that he
was once where their child is.
>>NOORY: I've always
believed, Debra,
to use traditional medicine with
faith in alternative medicine.
The combination to me
works and works well.
What do you think of that?
>>MARTIN: I 100% agree.
I think you use every
tool in the toolbox.
The doctors played a major role.
They saved Theo for
over a year, right?
It was a year since we
had the healing session.
They did their part.
But then their role stopped,
and then the healing took over
and God took over.
And it was God's
and Theo's plan.
>>NOORY: Faith is very important
in the scheme of things,
isn't it?
>>MARTIN: For me,
faith is everything.
Faith is my foundation.
And having faith, it takes every
worry, every concern that I
have, I give it over to God.
And I know that it's
going to turn out
the way it's supposed to.
So it frees me.
>>NOORY: Theo's parents,
Michael and Katie,
talk about faith and how
it helped their journey.
>> Standing in faith is
something that you can only
understand the true meaning
of once you've actually
experienced it and
lived through it.
Before this journey, I saw
standing in faith as something
that you did with
complete trust.
But you weren't
allowed to be human.
I saw it as an inhuman act.
Because how can
you stand in faith
when you're going
through the darkest days
when the medical community
are telling you your son isn't
going to survive?
And you've only got two people
telling you that they're wrong.
And he is, and you spent your
whole life in this community.
So it's very difficult
to stand in faith.
And one thing Debra's
helped us with
and especially her
books and the stories
that people have shared,
such as Mary and Willa,
is that standing in
faith actually is
about how you can bounce back.
It's not denying
your human emotions.
It's not being ignorant to
the pain and the suffering
that you're going to
endure while you're
walking this path of faith.
I think for me,
to encapsulate it,
I would change it rather
than stand in faith
to become a warrior of faith.
And the way I mean that
is that a warrior fights
no matter the odds.
A warrior will fight no
matter what people are
telling the consequences are.
They fight for what
they believe is right.
And for us, it's taken us to
be told that our son isn't
going to survive.
For us to be told
there is no thing
on this planet that
can survive him.
It's taken that for us to
become different people
and become warriors
of faith in the way we
will fight against the odds,
we will stand with our son.
And we will walk
the walk of faith.
>> What Debra's allowed us to
do is feel when we're frightened
and angry and frustrated.
But let it go and come
back to standing in faith.
And living in joy and
living in the present.
And one thing that it has
allowed us to do in a way
that I have never been
able to do in my whole life
is presence myself.
And enjoy right now.
And it stops you missing things.
And it allows you to
see what's really there.
It brings gravity to
where you are right now.
And that's something that we
are incredibly grateful to Debra
for.
Because it's allowed us to be
human and move through this
with the courage and the
faith to trust in the words
we were given, even
when it didn't look
like how we thought it would.
Because we had no roadmap.
It allows you to
trust in the words
and keep coming back to that.
And she's been with
us the whole way.
And there are no words for
our gratitude for Debra
for being there with us.
And for God for healing our son.
>>NOORY: Were they scared at
all during this process, Debra?
>>MARTIN: Oh, yes.
Yes.
>>NOORY: They thought
they were going to lose--
>>MARTIN: There were
times where we didn't
understand what was happening.
>>NOORY: Were you scared, too?
>>MARTIN: Yeah, I
was honest with them.
Like, OK, I was a little
pissed, to be honest with you,
when the biopsy came back
and it wasn't fully healed.
I'm like, what the heck, God?
You gave us these words.
I don't understand.
But--
>>NOORY: Either do
it completely or--
>>MARTIN: Yeah.
So we're all like, all
right, let's have our moment.
Right, we're all on the
phone and we're talking.
We're having this
pity crying moment.
And now we look back and
we laugh and go, well,
if we would have known, God,
that you were sending us
to Barcelona for
these results, then
we would have seen
the big picture.
We wouldn't have
had a pity party.
So we see the blessings
out of everything now.
But no, it was not
an easy journey.
And that's the key here.
You have to continue to
walk through every door.
You have to stand in your faith.
Stand in your truth.
Where does your truth come from?
It comes from your heart.
When Katie and Michael
have a strong knowingness
in their heart that their
son was not going to die,
and that's what they
stood strong in.
They didn't allow their
brain to spiral them
to think anything different.
>>NOORY: They seem
very determined
in these videos
I've seen of them.
Very determined.
>>MARTIN: They're very
confident in what they hear.
They have the faith.
They trust.
And trust is a big word.
Trusting in the process.
>>NOORY: What is the
Army for Love, Debra?
>>MARTIN: OK, so Army
for Love is a gathering
that I host on
Zoom once a month.
It's free.
And it's for people that
have any type of illness--
emotionally,
physically, spiritually.
That we join together
as a community
to put love into action,
to hold each other's hands,
and to guide each other
with love and hope.
And I do a mini healing
session at the end
of the session every month.
>>NOORY: Earlier, Debra,
you mentioned Willa.
Tell us a little bit
more about who Willa is.
>>MARTIN: OK, so Willa was
on my last episode with you.
And that's where
the Jones family had
seen Mary and Willa's story.
And so I connected the
two families together,
because without them
seeing that story,
they may never have
known about me.
>>NOORY: And they met thanks
to you for the very first time.
>> But after the first
meeting with Debra,
my perception from the
Gaia episode was that
Willa's healing was instant.
That's what I'd taken from that.
And Debra knows
the disappointment
I had when we found
out after the healing
after his aspirate hadn't gone.
And I ordered Debra's work.
And literally the day
after we found out,
that was the bit I
got to Willa's story
in the book, "Proof
of Miracles."
And I read it.
Katie was cooking dinner.
I was sat in the kitchen.
And I felt like this
huge weight lifted.
Because I thought, oh
my gosh, Willa's parents
had to go through hell from
the healing to all being clear.
And OK, you had the dates,
which was wonderful.
But it wasn't instant.
And that's when the
penny dropped to me.
It's not instant.
It's a process.
And it takes time.
And I can't explain to you.
I don't know where I'd
have been mentally,
and I don't think I'd
have been able to get back
to standing in faith
without you and your story.
And I genuinely mean that.
[LAUGHS]
>> Well, it was your
story that spoke to us.
It's everything that you were
talking about with Willa.
I know it's a completely
different diagnosis.
But all of the details
where they mattered,
they were identical.
It was crazy.
In the critical
care and everything.
And we kept pausing it.
We kept saying, this is for us.
This story is for us
from God, and we knew.
So then when there was
no doubt when we then
had the next results
that showed, we said,
we need a miracle.
And we said, well,
I know where to go.
So we contacted Debra.
But yeah, it was your
story that spoke to us.
And I can't say in truth that
although we were very, very
touched and Debra spoke to us,
it was the combination of Debra
and your story
specifically that spoke
to our hearts that made us
know, this is what to do next.
>>NOORY: What's next
for the family of Theo?
>>MARTIN: Well,
Katie's writing a book.
>>NOORY: About the
entire episode?
>>MARTIN: Yes, and it will
tell the entire journey.
>>NOORY: Maybe a movie.
>>MARTIN: Well,
might be a movie.
>>NOORY: Might be a movie.
>>MARTIN: It's very visual.
There's a lot of visions that
we received along the way.
And it's going to be titled
"And Then Hope Appeared."
>>NOORY: Debra, thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>MARTIN: No, thank
you for having me.
>>NOORY: Healing and
faith really works.
Debra has demonstrated it
with the little boy Theo.
And we're so glad we've
become a part of it.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[AUDIO LOGO]